README.md, before:

# clj-jwt

![clj-jwt logo](./clj-jwt.png)

A Clojure library to handle validation of JWTs.

```clojure
[no.nsd/clj-jwt "0.3.2"]
```

The library exposes functions to handle validation of JSON web tokens. It wraps
some of [Buddy's](https://funcool.github.io/buddy-sign/latest/) jwt signature
handling functions and uses a JWKS endpoint to fetch the public keys to use for
signature validation.

## Usage

You can use the `unsign` function which wraps buddy-sign's own unsign function:

```clojure
(require '[no.nsd.clj-jwt :as clj-jwt])

(clj-jwt/unsign "https://sso-stage.nsd.no/.well-known/jwks.json" "<your-token-here>")
```

Or you can use the `resolve-key` function with the  jws backend from
buddy-auth:

```clojure
(require '[buddy.auth.backends :as backends])
(require '[no.nsd.clj-jwt :as clj-jwt])

(def auth-backend
  (backends/jws {:secret (partial clj-jwt/resolve-key "https://sso-stage.nsd.no/.well-known/jwks.json")
                 :token-name "Bearer"
                 :authfn (fn [claims] claims)
                 :on-error (fn [request err] nil)
                 :options {:alg :rs256}}))
```

## Development

Ensure you have [Clojure installed](https://clojure.org/guides/getting_started).
Then clone project and run Clojure Tools Deps targets.  If you have rlwrap
installed you can use the `clj` command in place of `clojure`.

```bash
# Run regular old Clojure tests
clojure -Atest

# Exercise clojure specs
clojure -Apropertytest
```

You can start a REPL in the project to evaluate code. If you need an nREPL configure
a global tools deps alias in `~/.clojure/deps.edn`:

```clojure
{:aliases {:nREPL {:extra-deps  {nrepl/nrepl {:mvn/version "0.4.5"}}
                   :main-opts   ["-m" "nrepl.cmdline"]}}}
```

Then run:

```bash
clojure -AnREPL
```

### Installing 'work in progress' locally

If you are contributing code to the library you may wish to test it against a
clojure project locally to ensure everything works.

You may install your version of clj-jwt into your local m2 repository:

```bash
lein install
```

If you use clojure tools deps you can simply refer to your clj-jwt project in
the other clojure project's `deps.edn` file:

```edn
{:deps
 {clj-jwt {:local/root "/path/to/clj-jwt"}}}
```

## Making new release

You need [Leiningen installed](https://leiningen.org/#install). The
`project.clj` file specifies a `snapshot` and `release` repository. You need to
configure credentials for each of the repositories in your
`~/.lein/credentials.clj` file. Example:

```edn
{"https://nexus.nsd.no/repository/maven-snapshots/" {:username "your-nexus-user"
                                                     :password "super secret password"}
 "https://nexus.nsd.no/repository/maven-releases/" {:username "your-nexus-user"
                                                     :password "super secret password"}}
```

To make a release follow these points:

### Run tests and property tests (specs)

```bash
# Run regular old Clojure tests
clojure -Atest

# Exercise clojure specs
clojure -Apropertytest
```

### Bump version number in project.clj

There are different scenarios where you need to increment the version number
differently. The gist of it is that this library follows
[semver](https://semver.org/) with SNAPSHOT releases for test releases.

Making final release from snapshot builds:

0.2.0-SNAPSHOT -> 0.2.0

Making snapshot release from release build:

0.2.0 -> 0.3.0-SNAPSHOT

Making patch release from release build:

0.2.0 -> 0.2.1

Then run the lein deploy command:

### Run leiningen deploy

To build jar and upload to [NSD's Nexus](https://nexus.nsd.no):

```bash
lein deploy
```

### Finally commit, push and tag release

Commit the project.clj version bump, push it to the Gitlab repository, and tag
it. The tag message should describe the changes made, and the release notes can
link to the release in Nexus.

PS! It is not necessary to commit and push SNAPSHOT releases. SNAPSHOT releases
are mutable and should not be tagged in git.

## License

Copyright © 2018 NSD - NORSK SENTER FOR FORSKNINGSDATA AS

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.

Commit message:

Add signing and private key support
The library now adds wrappers around the buddy library's sign function. This is
made possible by extracting any private keys from the json web key list.

Specs are added for the new private key functionality.

The resolve-key function is now private, and new functions resolve-public-key
and resolve-private-key has taken its place.

Signed-off-by: Snorre Magnus Davøen <snorre.davoen@nsd.no>

README.md, after:

# clj-jwt

![clj-jwt logo](./clj-jwt.png)

A Clojure library to handle validation of JWTs and signing claims using JSON Web Keys.

```clojure
[no.nsd/clj-jwt "0.4.0-SNAPSHOT"]
```

clj-jwt wraps some of [Buddy's](https://funcool.github.io/buddy-sign/latest/) functions for validating JWTs and signing claims.
It uses a JWKS endpoint to fetch the public or private key to use for validation or signing respectively.
By using this library you can abstract away key handling as the library will automatically fetch new keys as the JWK server issues new keys.

## Usage

### Validating JWTs

You can use the `unsign` function which wraps buddy-sign's own unsign function:

```clojure
(require '[no.nsd.clj-jwt :as clj-jwt])

(clj-jwt/unsign "https://sso-stage.nsd.no/.well-known/jwks.json" "<your-token-here>")
```

Or you can use the `resolve-public-key` function with the  jws backend from
buddy-auth:

```clojure
(require '[buddy.auth.backends :as backends])
(require '[no.nsd.clj-jwt :as clj-jwt])

(def auth-backend
  (backends/jws {:secret (partial clj-jwt/resolve-public-key "https://sso-stage.nsd.no/.well-known/jwks.json")
                 :token-name "Bearer"
                 :authfn (fn [claims] claims)
                 :on-error (fn [request err] nil)
                 :options {:alg :rs256}}))
```

### Signing claims (creating tokens)

You can sign your own tokens if your JSON web token contains a private key component.
The `sign` function expects a jwks URL/path, a key id, the claims to sign, and optionally options to the buddy sign function.

```clojure
(require '[no.nsd.clj-jwt :as clj-jwt])

(clj-jwt/sign "my-local-jwks.json" "my-jwk-kid" {:sub "some-user"})
```

## Development

Ensure you have [Clojure installed](https://clojure.org/guides/getting_started).
Then clone project and run Clojure Tools Deps targets.  If you have rlwrap
installed you can use the `clj` command in place of `clojure`.

```bash
# Run regular old Clojure tests
clojure -Adev:test

# Exercise clojure specs
clojure -Adev:propertytest
```

You can start a REPL in the project to evaluate code. If you need an nREPL configure
a global tools deps alias in `~/.clojure/deps.edn`:

```clojure
{:aliases {:nREPL {:extra-deps  {nrepl/nrepl {:mvn/version "0.4.5"}}
                   :main-opts   ["-m" "nrepl.cmdline"]}}}
```

Then run:

```bash
clojure -Adev:nREPL
```

### Installing 'work in progress' locally

If you are contributing code to the library you may wish to test it against a
clojure project locally to ensure everything works.

You may install your version of clj-jwt into your local m2 repository:

```bash
lein install
```

If you use clojure tools deps you can simply refer to your clj-jwt project in
the other clojure project's `deps.edn` file:

```edn
{:deps
 {clj-jwt {:local/root "/path/to/clj-jwt"}}}
```

## Making new release

You need [Leiningen installed](https://leiningen.org/#install). The
`project.clj` file specifies a `snapshot` and `release` repository. You need to
configure credentials for each of the repositories in your
`~/.lein/credentials.clj` file. Example:

```edn
{"https://nexus.nsd.no/repository/maven-snapshots/" {:username "your-nexus-user"
                                                     :password "super secret password"}
 "https://nexus.nsd.no/repository/maven-releases/" {:username "your-nexus-user"
                                                     :password "super secret password"}}
```

To make a release follow these points:

### Run tests and property tests (specs)

```bash
# Run regular old Clojure tests
clojure -Atest

# Exercise clojure specs
clojure -Apropertytest
```

### Bump version number in project.clj

There are different scenarios where you need to increment the version number
differently. The gist of it is that this library follows
[semver](https://semver.org/) with SNAPSHOT releases for test releases.

Making final release from snapshot builds:

0.2.0-SNAPSHOT -> 0.2.0

Making snapshot release from release build:

0.2.0 -> 0.3.0-SNAPSHOT

Making patch release from release build:

0.2.0 -> 0.2.1

Then run the lein deploy command:

### Run leiningen deploy

To build jar and upload to [NSD's Nexus](https://nexus.nsd.no):

```bash
lein deploy
```

### Finally commit, push and tag release

Commit the project.clj version bump, push it to the Gitlab repository, and tag
it. The tag message should describe the changes made, and the release notes can
link to the release in Nexus.

PS! It is not necessary to commit and push SNAPSHOT releases. SNAPSHOT releases
are mutable and should not be tagged in git.

## License

Copyright © 2018 NSD - NORSK SENTER FOR FORSKNINGSDATA AS

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or (at
your option) any later version.
